#summary Documentation for the UML Profile assumed by this project

= Introduction =

Add your content here.


= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages



= Inheriting attribute data types =
Example: SimDB.Literal base class of {{{DoubleLiteral}}} and {{{StringLiteral}}}.
How do we support usage of the base class in particular for Database mapping?

Example from [http://volute.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/projects/theory/snapdm/specification/html/SimDB.png SimDB]. We'd like to be able to define parametersetting having a value atrtirbute of type Literal, and have subclasses of literal for string and numeric parameters.

What we would need is something like a constarint on parametersetting.value that fixes its type to be the one described by the parameter.datatype value.
Can this be actually treated using a constraint? A typical pattern ?

= Constraints =
We need support for constraints, in particular some typical patterns need support and may be given this in the UML Profile without too much problems.

One typeical pattern is that a reference frmo a child class should go to a
child of a referenced instance of the  referrers parent.

Example form SimDB:
parametersetting should reference an inputparameter of the protocol that is referred by the parametersetting's containing Experiment.
In the interpretation where the experiment and the protocol are the actual entities one can argue that the parametersetting's perametter reference is a refinement of the experiment's protocol reference.


